[KOGUMA]
December.
The solstice has passed, and our
school is finally on break
for winter vacation.
[KOGUMA] My Cub came
with leg shields built into
the factory body, and with the
addition of the windshield
and the handlebar
covers I bought,
any problems I might have
had riding in the cold
are basically resolved now.
And after the usual complaints
about how dorky-looking
they were, Reiko gave in
and installed a pair
of leg shields, too.
The cold is no longer an issue.
We're as free on our Cubs
now as we were before.
Free to go whenever,
and wherever we like.
Huh?
[panting]
Hi there, Koguma!
Going shopping?
I am. I'm picking up
coffee beans in Nirasaki.
Be careful.
Right!
[KOGUMA] Shii has been carrying
on with her mission to convert
the dining area of
her family's shop
to an Italian-style café.
Getting a job with
the post office,
and scouring the town for
anything that could be
used at the shop.
[KOGUMA whimpers]
[KOGUMA]
So chilly...
[KOGUMA] For the first time
since I bought my Cub...
...I woke up and
looked out my window...
...at a world
gleaming in silver.
[KOGUMA]
I can't ride in this.
[phone buzzing]
[buzzing continues]
Hey, Reiko.
[REIKO]
Get over here right now!
- No way.
- [REIKO] Seriously, come on!
I've got something
you really need to see!
[receive clicks]
[KOGUMA]
Hmm...
- [phone buzzes]
- Hmm? Hmm...
Ah!
[receiver ringing]
- [REIKO] Hey, what's up?
- I'm on my way.
[whimpering]
[REIKO]
Hmm?
Glad you could make it.
Are those...?
[REIKO] Yep. Tire chains
for a Super Cub.
Those will be helpful.
Where did you get them?
The newspaper distributor
in Sagamihara
is going out of business.
I figured it would have been
a great place to find
cheap Cub parts in good shape,
but I arrived too late.
All the big stuff like chassis
were picked over. Kinda sad.
I guess no one thought these
were worth paying for.
[KOGUMA]
Hmm.
[REIKO]
I wasn't sure, either.
But they actually
came in handy
way earlier than I expected.
Ready to put yours on?
[gasps]
Yes, please!
[KOGUMA]
Hmm.
[REIKO]
[BOTH chuckle]
Where are we going?
[REIKO]
A bit further uphill.
I found this
really awesome spot.
Sounds good.
[KOGUMA]
Hmm.
[REIKO chuckles]
[KOGUMA]
Hmm.
[REIKO giggles]
[gasps]
[REIKO]
Here we go!
Yahoo...!
Ah― Ah!
Ah... Ah-Ah...!
[KOGUMA gasps]
[panting]
Heh!
[REIKO]
Woo-hoo!
[REIKO giggles]
[KOGUMA chuckles]
[gasps]
[laughs]
[REIKO gasps]
Ah!
[REIKO panting]
[giggles]
[KOGUMA grunts]
[BOTH panting]
[giggling]
[chuckling]
[REIKO]
Hmm!
Ah!
[KOGUMA]
Here.
[REIKO]
Ah?
So this whole thing's
mine, isn't it?
For the chains?
No, silly, you get half.
[REIKO chuckles]
Nice, the tin even
kept it kinda warm.
[gulping]
[REIKO]
Mm.
[KOGUMA]
Here.
Thank you.
[KOGUMA]
Hmm?
[REIKO]
Mm.
[KOGUMA chuckling]
Here I go!
Whoo!
[KOGUMA giggles]
Ah― Ah!
[panting]
[REIKO chuckling]
[sighs]
[grunts]
That all you got?
[REIKO]
You can do better!
[KOGUMA grunting]
Ya think so?
[giggling]
[engine revvs]
Ah! Hey! Using your
Cub's against the rules!
We never talked about
the rules, did we?
Okay, fine, you win!
I give up!
[KOGUMA giggles]
[REIKO]
I said I give up, already!
Heh!
Ah!
[chuckles]
This is great!
So are you enjoying yourself?
Yeah! This is fun.
Man, winter is
the best, isn't it?
Yeah.
Winter is great when you
spend it with your Cub.
[REIKO]
You ready?
Yeah.
[SHII]
Ah! Reiko and Koguma!
Ah! Ahem.
Right this way, then,
if you please.
Oh, I do!
[KOGUMA]
Hmm?
Hold on.
[REIKO]
Hmm? Yeah, what's up?
Something's definitely
different from last time.
[KOGUMA]
The tablecloth and chairs!
The Italian Tricolore?
Oh, my. Has Little Italy
started a colony?
[SHII]
Mm. Si.
Aww, why couldn't
you have invited me along?
You wouldn't wanna
go on a bicycle.
[SHII] I doubt it's
a problem for my Moulton.
I would like to
get up there sometime.
I can come with you when you do.
Ah!
If you come with me to Mount
Kaikoma, I can give you a ride
straight up to the top and back!
My passenger seat
is exactly the right size.
- Passenger seat?
- [REIKO giggles]
- [SHII] Ah?
- [KOGUMA] Hmm?
[REIKO]
You would fit.
Ah?!
[whines]
[REIKO] Oh my gosh, Shii,
I was just kidding.
[SHII] I might believe you if
you weren't smiling like that.
[chuckles]
I bet we could get her
to fit into my front basket.
[SHII]
Ah! Not you, too, Koguma!
[REIKO, KOGUMA giggle]
[KOGUMA]
Hmm.
Huh?
[KOGUMA]
Hmm.
Hey there! So good to see you!
[SHII'S FATHER]
It's cold out there.
Now then. How's some
Guatemalan French Roast sound?
[KOGUMA] I'll take
whatever you recommend.
[engine puttering]
[REIKO]
Hiya.
Thanks for waiting!
They say all the forest
roads are impassable
with the ice under the snow.
I bet the deer and
wild boar are the only ones
using them right now.
Maybe not even them.
It's that unsafe.
We don't get too much
accumulation here.
Lots of wind, though.
For sure.
But that's fine, it just means
you gotta go get some of these.
And a good pair of these.
Right. Now that we've got our
windshields and leg shields,
we can go riding in the cold
for hours without a problem.
And my full face-shield was
a pretty nice upgrade, too.
With the right combination
of accessories and gear,
we can get around
just fine on our Cubs
no matter how cold it gets.
Thank you for your patience.
Your drinks.
Thank you so much, sir.
Thank you so much.
Where did Shii run off to?
Sorry about that. You made
the trip and she's not around.
She's working on her project.
Right, the Italian
expansion plan.
Guess she went off to search
for supplies in town.
I passed her turning
onto the cat trail.
What's that, now?
From the prefectural road
to the Shichiriiwa Line.
Ahh. That little
bitty dirt road.
On a bike, that's the fastest
way to the station.
[REIKO] So where are Italy's
borders going to end up?
It seems like the two of you
have had a big influence on her
since the festival.
[REIKO chuckles]
[SHII'S FATHER] I think she
wants to be more like you.
Wait, really?
[SHII'S FATHER]
Yeah! She's out on her bike
a whole lot more
than she used to be,
and she's not just
running errands, either.
[SHII'S FATHER]
In a way, it feels like
she's trying to
catch up to you two.
I might have been thinking
more about myself than her
when I ordered her a Moulton,
but she finally
started bonding with it.
Honestly, I'm a little touched.
[REIKO]
I'm stopping at Komeri. You in?
[KOGUMA]
Not today.
[REIKO]
Okay.
[KOGUMA]
It'll be cold tomorrow, too.
[REIKO] The temperature's
just gonna keep dropping.
We might not notice
as much with all the gear
we'll be piling on, though.
[KOGUMA] The two of us
are learning something.
[KOGUMA] The real reason that
riders say the winter is both
a fierce enemy,
and an endurance test.
[KOGUMA] The thing is,
it's not how cold it gets.
It's how long the cold lasts.
[KOGUMA]
After a few more months,
spring will awaken the cherry
blossoms on the slopes
of the Southern Alps.
[KOGUMA] But for now, that's
still well past the horizon.
Too far out to be seen
from the seat of a Cub.
No matter how hard you squint,
winter stretches
beyond your view.
[phone buzzes]
[KOGUMA]
Hmm?
[buzzing continues]
Hey, Shii.
[KOGUMA]
Mm?
[SHII]
Puh... Please...
Huh?
[KOGUMA grunts]
[SHII]
Help me...
[gasps]
[SHII whimpering]
I'm cold... Please help...
[KOGUMA] Episode 11,
"A Distant Spring."